Editorial review: Document Translator and Language Detector APIs (#39457)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/translator/index.md

---
title: Translator
slug: Web/API/Translator
page-type: web-api-interface
status:
  - experimental
browser-compat: api.Translator
---

{{APIRef("Translator and Language Detector APIs")}}{{SeeCompatTable}}

The **`Translator`** interface of the {{domxref("Translator and Language Detector APIs", "Translator and Language Detector APIs", "", "nocode")}} contains all the associated translation functionality, including checking AI model availability, creating a new `Translator` instance, using it to create a translation, and more.

{{InheritanceDiagram}}

## Instance properties

- {{domxref("Translator.inputQuota", "inputQuota")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}} {{Experimental_Inline}}
  - : The input quota available to the browser for generating translations.
- {{domxref("Translator.sourceLanguage", "sourceLanguage")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}} {{Experimental_Inline}}
  - : The expected language of the input text to be translated.
- {{domxref("Translator.targetLanguage", "targetLanguage")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}} {{Experimental_Inline}}
  - : The language that the input text will be translated into.

## Static methods

- {{domxref("Translator.availability_static", "availability()")}} {{Experimental_Inline}}

>   - : Returns an enumerated value that indicates whether the browser AI model supports a given `Translator` configuration.

Reviewer: indicates the availability of an AI model that supports ...

Author: updated

- {{domxref("Translator.create_static", "create()")}} {{Experimental_Inline}}
  - : Creates a new `Translator` instance from which to generate translations.

## Instance methods

- {{domxref("Translator.destroy", "destroy()")}} {{Experimental_Inline}}
  - : Destroys the `Translator` instance it is called on.
- {{domxref("Translator.measureInputUsage", "measureInputUsage()")}} {{Experimental_Inline}}
  - : Reports how much input quota would be used by a translation operation for a given text input.
- {{domxref("Translator.translate", "translate()")}} {{Experimental_Inline}}
  - : Generates a new translation string.
- {{domxref("Translator.translateStreaming", "translateStreaming()")}} {{Experimental_Inline}}

>   - : Generates a new translation as a {{domxref("ReadableStream")}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : Generates a translation of the input string as a {{domxref("ReadableStream")}}.
```
